h1. Magja

"Magja":http://code.google.com/p/magja/ is a Java Connector for Magento's API

The goal its build a java interface to access the Magento API and exchange data.

h2. Getting Started

* "Installation for Use":http://code.google.com/p/magja/wiki/Installation
* "Setup Project for Development":http://code.google.com/p/magja/wiki/SetupProject
* "Wiki Pages":http://code.google.com/p/magja/w/list 

h2. RSS Feed

Stay up to date with "Magja RSS Feed":http://code.google.com/feeds/p/magja/updates/basic 

h2. Create the Magento Connection Properties File

Create the file @/src/main/resources/magento-api.properties@ (or in your default classpath) with your proper data to magento installation, for example:

bc.. # connection to magento parameters
magento-api-username=yourMagentoApiUser
magento-api-password=youtMagentoApiPassword
magento-api-url=http://localhost/magento/index.php/api/soap/

# the ID of the default attribute set in magento
default-attribute-set-id=4

# the ID of the default root category in magento
default-root-category-id=2

h2. Magja Console

Make sure you have created @magento-api.properties@ file as described above.

Usage:

bc.. ./magja-console

import collection.JavaConversions._
import com.google.code.magja.soap._
import com.google.code.magja.model.customer._
import com.google.code.magja.service._
import com.google.code.magja.service.customer._

h3. Category

Get only the basic information of a Category, without its dependencies:

bc. val category = RemoteServiceFactory.getCategoryRemoteService.getByIdClean(2)
println(category)

Get category with its children:

bc. val category = RemoteServiceFactory.getCategoryRemoteService.getByIdWithChildren(2)
category.getChildren.foreach(c => println(c.getId + " " + c.getName))

Get category with its parent:

bc. val category = RemoteServiceFactory.getCategoryRemoteService.getByIdWithParent(2)
println(category.getParent)

Get category with its parent and children:

bc. val category = RemoteServiceFactory.getCategoryRemoteService.getByIdWithParentAndChildren(2)

h3. Product

bc. import com.google.code.magja.model.product._

h4. Listing Products

List all products with dependencies (slower)

bc. val products = RemoteServiceFactory.getProductRemoteService.listAll

List all products without dependencies (faster)

bc. val products = RemoteServiceFactory.getProductRemoteService.listAllNoDep

h4. Create Product

bc.. import com.google.code.magja.model.product._
import com.google.code.magja.model.category._

val product = new Product
product.setSku("DUMMYPRD")
product.setName("Lovely Umbrella")
product.setShortDescription("This is a short description")
product.setDescription("This is a description for Product")
product.setPrice(250.99)
product.setCost(100.22)
product.setEnabled(true)
product.setWeight(0.500)
product.setType(ProductTypeEnum.SIMPLE.getProductType)
product.setAttributeSet(new ProductAttributeSet(4, "Default"))
product.setMetaDescription("one two tree")
product.setGoogleCheckout(true)

// category
product.setCategories(List(new Category(2)))

// websites - set the website for product
product.setWebsites(Array(1))

// inventory - set the inventory for product
product.setQty(20)
product.setInStock(true)

// Optional: you can set the properties not mapped like the following too:
product.set("meta_description", "one two tree")

// then, we just instanciate the service to persist the product
RemoteServiceFactory.getProductRemoteService.save(product)

h3. Customer

bc. val customerRemoteService = RemoteServiceFactory.getCustomerRemoteService
val customers = customerRemoteService.list
customers.foreach(c => println(c.getFirstName + " " + c.getEmail))


h2. Maven Dependency

Magja continuous integration builds are automatically deployed to Sonatype OSS repository:

https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/

bc. <dependency>
	<groupId>com.google.code.magja</groupId>
	<artifactId>magja</artifactId>
	<version>1.0.3-SNAPSHOT</version>
</dependency>

You can use the search UI from https://oss.sonatype.org/

Snapshots will be deployed periodically from Jenkins CI provided by [Bippo](http://www.bippo.co.id/) & [Soluvas](http://www.soluvas.com/).


h2. Acknowledgments

Bandung Everlasting Beauty logo downloaded from "Info Bandung CodePlex project":http://infobandung.codeplex.com/
designed by Achmad Sutarjono.

